README.md, before:

# MS3-Build-A-Better-Body-After-50

**Build-A-Better-Body-After-50**

Backend Development Milestone Project - Code Institute.

The live website can be found [here]()


![All Devices Image](wireframes/sitealldevices.png)


**Overview**

As we age, every decade a man will lose ten pounds of muscle. They begin to shrink and lose mass. The number and size of muscle fibres also decrease. Handgrip strength drops, making it more difficult to do simple tasks like opening a jar. The heart muscle becomes less able to propel large quantities of blood quickly to the body. We tire more quickly and take longer to recover. The body's metabolic rate slows down, making it a lot easier to put on body fat. The mineral content of bones falls, so that bones become less dense and more fragile.

Build a Better Body after 50 gives users an opportunity to access information on resistance exercises that are relevant to person who is over 50 and who is looking to build and maintain muscle in order to create a strong healthy body as they age.

The website design is to be a simple and easy to use. It is primarily targeted towards an audience that has little experience of exercise or building muscle. It is free to use and publicly available. The user will need to sign up as a member in order to view and contribute to the pool of exercises.



**Features**


## User Experience (UX)

**New User**
- I would like to find out what the site is about
- I would like to see if the site is for me without registering
- I want to easily navigate through the site to find content
- I would like to easily register
- I want to have the ability to find their social media links 
- I would like to be able to add my exercises

**Existing User**
- I want to be able to sign in and out easily
- I would like to be able to delete my account
- I would like to be able to add/edit/delete comments to my own exercises
- I would like to be able to reset my password
- I want to have the ability to Create, Read, Update and Delete my exercises

**All Users**
- I would like to be able to contact Build a Body after 50
- I would like to be able to add/edit/delete exercise information
- I would like to be able to add/edit/delete my information

**Site Owner**
- I would like to present a clean, simple website free of ‘clutter’, which is visually appealing
- I would like easy navigation between pages
- I would like to get user feedback when I take actions on the site
- I would like to promote exercise to all, particularly the target audience 





 ## UX Design

**Scope**

For the audience I want to present a fun and enjoyable app that is easy to understand and can be accessed on mobile devices, laptops and desktops. If they find the content useful they might tell their friends.

**Structure**


**Skeleton**

*[Wireframes](https://github.com/BabusDublinCoding/MS2-And-The-Award-Goes-To/tree/master/wireframes)*

- The wireframes were created using Balsamic, a popular wireframing tool, which Code Institute student can avail of as a fully licenced product.
- This was done during the early stages of the project and demonstrates the structure of the website on different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.



**Surface**

*Design*

**Colour Scheme**

Colours associated with exercise related websites tend to contain strong dark colours such as black contrasted with light greens and shades of white. There are often warmer colours added sparingly to add a sense sophistication. I have chosen a palette which reflects this, so the user feels a certain comfortable familiarity. 

https://coolors.co/fcefef-416788-f7b32b-47e5bc-131112
 
**Typography**

**Icons**

- Icons are from the Font Awesome library

## Features

**Existing**

**Features to implement in the future:**



## Technologies Used

During the development and testing of the website:

- **Languages**

   - [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML): Used to structure the page

   - [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS): Used to style the different elements on the page
   
   - [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript): Used to allow the game to produce relevant responses dependent on users' actions

- **Frameworks and libraries**
  - [Materialize]( https://materializecss.com/): website framework with html, CSS and JavaScript.
  - [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/): Used for the social media icons on the website

- **Media & wireframes**
  - [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/): To design the wireframes
  - [Am I Responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/#): Image of site all devices

- **Workspaces & repository hosting**
  - [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/): As a local repository to develop the code
  - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/): As a local repository to develop the code
  - [Git](https://git-scm.com/): For version control from gitpod to save commits and push code onto GitHub
  - [GitHub](https://github.com/): To save the code
  - [MongoDB]( https://www.mongodb.com/):  used as the database for the site
  - **Testing**
  - [Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools): Google inspect was used examine and test responsiveness
  - [Google Mobile Friendly Test](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?utm_source=gws&utm_medium=onebox&utm_campaign=suit): For additional mobile testing
  - [Google Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse): Google lighthouse was used to assess performance of the site
  - [W3C HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/): To check there's no error in the HTML code
  - [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/): To check there's no error in the CSS code
  - [JavaScript Code Checker](https://jshint.com/) To check there's no errorJavaScript code

- **Deployment**
  - [Heroku]( https://www.heroku.com/): To deploy the live site


## Testing

## Deployment

## Credits

**Images**


**Content**
- All wording content was written by the developer

**Media**
All images sourced as freely-usable images and free stock photos from the websites below:

## Acknowledgements
- My mentor Narender Singh for his time, patience and motivation
- My girlfriend Giovanna for her constructive criticism, understanding and encouragement 
- Finally, as always the slack community and the [Code Institute]( https://codeinstitute.net/) tutors

Commit message:

added strategy details to ux design
and updated technologies used

README.md, after:

# MS3-Build-A-Better-Body-After-50

**Build-A-Better-Body-After-50**

Backend Development Milestone Project - Code Institute.

The live website can be found []()


![All Devices Image](wireframes/sitealldevices.png)


**Overview**

As we age, every decade a man will lose ten pounds of muscle. They begin to shrink and lose mass. The number and size of muscle fibres also decrease. Handgrip strength drops, making it more difficult to do simple tasks like opening a jar. The heart muscle becomes less able to propel large quantities of blood quickly to the body. We tire more quickly and take longer to recover. The body's metabolic rate slows down, making it a lot easier to put on body fat. The mineral content of bones falls, so that bones become less dense and more fragile.

Build a Better Body after 50 gives users an opportunity to access information on resistance exercises that are relevant to person who is over 50 and who is looking to build and maintain muscle in order to create a strong healthy body as they age.

The website design is to be a simple and easy to use. It is primarily targeted towards an audience that has little experience of exercise or building muscle. It is free to use and publicly available. The user will need to sign up as a member in order to view and contribute to the pool of exercises.



**Features**


## User Experience (UX)

**New User**
- I would like to find out what the site is about
- I would like to see if the site is for me without registering
- I want to easily navigate through the site to find content
- I would like to easily register
- I want to have the ability to find their social media links 
- I would like to be able to add my exercises

**Existing User**
- I want to be able to sign in and out easily
- I would like to be able to delete my account
- I would like to be able to add/edit/delete comments to my own exercises
- I would like to be able to reset my password
- I want to have the ability to Create, Read, Update and Delete my exercises

**All Users**
- I would like to be able to contact Build a Body after 50
- I would like to be able to add/edit/delete exercise information
- I would like to be able to add/edit/delete my information

**Site Owner**
- I would like to present a clean, simple website free of ‘clutter’, which is visually appealing
- I would like easy navigation between pages
- I would like to get user feedback when I take actions on the site
- I would like to promote exercise to all, particularly the target audience 





 ## UX Design
 
**Strategy**

*User Needs* - User to access the site on mobile, tablet and then the desktop. The information is to be presented in a concise manner.

*Technical Aptitudes* - The main technologies used in the project will be HTML, CSS, Materialize, Python+Flask and MongoDB

*Business Vision* - The project is not a commercial venture but simply to inform and educate the user.


**Scope**

For the audience I want to present a fun and enjoyable app that is easy to understand and can be accessed on mobile devices, laptops and desktops. If they find the content useful they might tell their friends.

**Structure**


**Skeleton**

*[Wireframes](https://github.com/BabusDublinCoding/MS2-And-The-Award-Goes-To/tree/master/wireframes)*

- The wireframes were created using Balsamic, a popular wireframing tool, which Code Institute student can avail of as a fully licenced product.
- This was done during the early stages of the project and demonstrates the structure of the website on different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.



**Surface**

*Design*

**Colour Scheme**

Colours associated with exercise related websites tend to contain strong dark colours such as black contrasted with light greens and shades of white. There are often warmer colours added sparingly to add a sense sophistication. I have chosen a palette which reflects this, so the user feels a certain comfortable familiarity. 

https://coolors.co/fcefef-416788-f7b32b-47e5bc-131112
 
**Typography**

**Icons**

- Icons are from the Font Awesome library

## Features

**Existing**

**Features to implement in the future:**



## Technologies Used

During the development and testing of the website:

- **Languages**

   - [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML): Used to structure the page

   - [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS): Used to style the different elements on the page
   
   - [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript): Used to allow the game to produce relevant responses dependent on users' actions

- **Frameworks and libraries**
  - [Materialize]( https://materializecss.com/): website framework with html, CSS and JavaScript
  - [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/): Used for the social media icons on the website
  - [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/): framework for the back end application to connect database to front end web page

- **Media & wireframes**
  - [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/): To design the wireframes
  - [Am I Responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/#): Image of site all devices

- **Workspaces & repository hosting**
  - [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/): As a local repository to develop the code
  - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/): As a local repository to develop the code
  - [Git](https://git-scm.com/): For version control from gitpod to save commits and push code onto GitHub
  - [GitHub](https://github.com/): To save the code
  - [MongoDB]( https://www.mongodb.com/):  used as the database for the site
- **Testing**
  - [Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools): Google inspect was used examine and test responsiveness
  - [Google Mobile Friendly Test](https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly?utm_source=gws&utm_medium=onebox&utm_campaign=suit): For additional mobile testing
  - [Google Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse): Google lighthouse was used to assess performance of the site
  - [W3C HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/): To check there's no error in the HTML code
  - [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/): To check there's no error in the CSS code
  - [JavaScript Code Checker](https://jshint.com/) To check there's no errorJavaScript code

- **Deployment**
  - [Heroku]( https://www.heroku.com/): To deploy the live site


## Testing

## Deployment

## Credits

**Images**


**Content**
- All wording content was written by the developer

**Media**
All images sourced as freely-usable images and free stock photos from the websites below:

## Acknowledgements
- My mentor Narender Singh for his time, patience and motivation
- My girlfriend Giovanna for her constructive criticism, understanding and encouragement 
- Finally, as always the slack community and the [Code Institute]( https://codeinstitute.net/) tutors
